README.md, before:

service
=========

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/robertdebock/ansible-role-service.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/robertdebock/ansible-role-service)

Add custom services to your Linux system.

Example Playbook
----------------

This example is taken from `molecule/default/playbook.yml`:
```yaml
---
- name: Converge
  hosts: all
  gather_facts: no
  become: yes
  serial: 30%

  vars:
    service_list:
      - name: simple-service
        description: Simple Service
        start_command: sleep 3600
      - name: forking-service
        description: Forking Service
        type: forking
        start_command: "sleep 7200 &"
      - name: specific-stop-service
        description: Specific Stop Service
        start_command: sleep 14400
        stop_command: killall -f "sleep 1440"
      - name: specific-user-group-service
        description: Specific User Group Service
        start_command: sleep 28800
      - name: specific-workingdirectory-service
        description: Specific WorkingDirectory Service
        start_command: sleep 57600
        user_name: root
        group_name: root

  roles:
    - role: robertdebock.bootstrap
    - role: robertdebock.service

```

Also see a [full explanation and example](https://robertdebock.nl/how-to-use-these-roles.html) on how to use these roles.

Role Variables
--------------

These variables are set in `defaults/main.yml`:
```yaml
---
# defaults file for service

# Some Docker containers do not allow managing services, rebooting and writing
# to some locations in /etc. The role skips tasks that will typically fail in
# Docker. With this parameter you can tell the role to -not- skip these tasks.
service_ignore_docker: yes

```

Requirements
------------

- Access to a repository containing packages, likely on the internet.
- A recent version of Ansible. (Tests run on the last 3 release of Ansible.)

The following roles can be installed to ensure all requirements are met, using `ansible-galaxy install -r requirements.yml`:

```yaml
---
- robertdebock.bootstrap

```

Context
-------

This role is a part of many compatible roles. Have a look at [the documentation of these roles](https://robertdebock.nl/) for further information.

Here is an overview of related roles:
![dependencies](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/robertdebock/drawings/artifacts/service.png "Dependency")


Compatibility
-------------

This role has been tested against the following distributions and Ansible version:

|distribution|ansible 2.6|ansible 2.7|ansible devel|
|------------|-----------|-----------|-------------|
|alpine-edge*|yes|yes|yes*|
|alpine-latest|yes|yes|yes*|
|archlinux|yes|yes|yes*|
|centos-6|yes|yes|yes*|
|centos-latest|yes|yes|yes*|
|debian-latest|yes|yes|yes*|
|debian-stable|yes|yes|yes*|
|debian-unstable*|yes|yes|yes*|
|fedora-latest|yes|yes|yes*|
|fedora-rawhide*|yes|yes|yes*|
|opensuse-leap|yes|yes|yes*|
|opensuse-tumbleweed|yes|yes|yes*|
|ubuntu-devel*|yes|yes|yes*|
|ubuntu-latest|yes|yes|yes*|
|ubuntu-rolling|yes|yes|yes*|

A single star means the build may fail, it's marked as an experimental build.

Testing
-------

[Unit tests](https://travis-ci.org/robertdebock/ansible-role-service) are done on every commit and periodically.

If you find issues, please register them in [GitHub](https://github.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-service/issues)

To test this role locally please use [Molecule](https://github.com/metacloud/molecule):
```
pip install molecule
molecule test
```

To test on Amazon EC2, configure [~/.aws/credentials](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-java/v1/developer-guide/credentials.html) and `export AWS_REGION=eu-central-1` before running `molecule test --scenario-name ec2`.

There are many specific scenarios available, please have a look in the `molecule/` directory.

Run the [ansible-galaxy](https://github.com/ansible/galaxy-lint-rules) and [my](https://github.com/robertdebock/ansible-lint-rules) lint rules if you want your change to be merges:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/ansible/ansible-lint.git /tmp/ansible-lint
ansible-lint -r /tmp/ansible-lint/lib/ansiblelint/rules .

git clone https://github.com/robertdebock/ansible-lint /tmp/my-ansible-lint
ansible-lint -r /tmp/my-ansible-lint/rules .
```

License
-------

Apache-2.0


Author Information
------------------

[Robert de Bock](https://robertdebock.nl/) <robert@meinit.nl>

Commit message:

Update docs, fix status, fix working_directory, fix tests.

README.md, after:

service
=========

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/robertdebock/ansible-role-service.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/robertdebock/ansible-role-service)

Add custom services to your Linux system.

Example Playbook
----------------

This example is taken from `molecule/default/playbook.yml`:
```yaml
---
- name: Converge
  hosts: all
  gather_facts: no
  become: yes
  serial: 30%

  vars:
    service_list:
      - name: simple-service
        description: Simple Service
        start_command: sleep 3600
      - name: forking-service
        description: Forking Service
        type: forking
        start_command: "sleep 7200 &"
      - name: specific-stop-service
        description: Specific Stop Service
        start_command: sleep 14400
        stop_command: killall -f "sleep 1440"
      - name: specific-user-group-service
        description: Specific User Group Service
        start_command: sleep 28800
        user_name: root
        group_name: root
      - name: specific-workingdirectory-service
        description: Specific WorkingDirectory Service
        start_command: sleep 57600
        working_directory: /tmp
      - name: specific-pattern-service
        description: Specific Status Pattern Service
        start_command: sleep 115200
        status_pattern: 115200

  roles:
    - role: robertdebock.bootstrap
    - role: robertdebock.service

```

Also see a [full explanation and example](https://robertdebock.nl/how-to-use-these-roles.html) on how to use these roles.

Role Variables
--------------

These variables are set in `defaults/main.yml`:
```yaml
---
# defaults file for service

# status_list can contain a list of services to add to the system.
# The mandatory items for each item are:
# - name: The (short) name of the service, i.e. "tomcat".
# - description: A bit longer name, i.e. "Tomcat application server".
# - start_command: The command to start the daemon,
#   i.e. "/usr/local/bin/java -jar some.jar"
# The optional items are:
# - stop_command: By default the program that is started is found and stopped.
#   in case a running program is renamed or expanded (including a path) during
#   startup, you can specify a custom stop command here, i.e. "pkill foo"
# - status_pattern: What program (or pattern) to look for when finding the
#   status of a program, i.e. "artifactory".
# - type: How the program starts; "simple" or "forking". Simple means the
#   program runs on the foreground, i.e. "nc -l 1234". Forking means the
#   program itself forks, i.e. "nc -l 12345 &"
# - working_directory: The directory to cd into before starting the service.

# Some Docker containers do not allow managing services, rebooting and writing
# to some locations in /etc. The role skips tasks that will typically fail in
# Docker. With this parameter you can tell the role to -not- skip these tasks.
service_ignore_docker: yes

```

Requirements
------------

- Access to a repository containing packages, likely on the internet.
- A recent version of Ansible. (Tests run on the last 3 release of Ansible.)

The following roles can be installed to ensure all requirements are met, using `ansible-galaxy install -r requirements.yml`:

```yaml
---
- robertdebock.bootstrap

```

Context
-------

This role is a part of many compatible roles. Have a look at [the documentation of these roles](https://robertdebock.nl/) for further information.

Here is an overview of related roles:
![dependencies](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/robertdebock/drawings/artifacts/service.png "Dependency")


Compatibility
-------------

This role has been tested against the following distributions and Ansible version:

|distribution|ansible 2.6|ansible 2.7|ansible devel|
|------------|-----------|-----------|-------------|
|alpine-edge*|yes|yes|yes*|
|alpine-latest|yes|yes|yes*|
|archlinux|yes|yes|yes*|
|centos-6|yes|yes|yes*|
|centos-latest|yes|yes|yes*|
|debian-latest|yes|yes|yes*|
|debian-stable|yes|yes|yes*|
|debian-unstable*|yes|yes|yes*|
|fedora-latest|yes|yes|yes*|
|fedora-rawhide*|yes|yes|yes*|
|opensuse-leap|yes|yes|yes*|
|opensuse-tumbleweed|yes|yes|yes*|
|ubuntu-devel*|yes|yes|yes*|
|ubuntu-latest|yes|yes|yes*|
|ubuntu-rolling|yes|yes|yes*|

A single star means the build may fail, it's marked as an experimental build.

Testing
-------

[Unit tests](https://travis-ci.org/robertdebock/ansible-role-service) are done on every commit and periodically.

If you find issues, please register them in [GitHub](https://github.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-service/issues)

To test this role locally please use [Molecule](https://github.com/metacloud/molecule):
```
pip install molecule
molecule test
```

To test on Amazon EC2, configure [~/.aws/credentials](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-java/v1/developer-guide/credentials.html) and `export AWS_REGION=eu-central-1` before running `molecule test --scenario-name ec2`.

There are many specific scenarios available, please have a look in the `molecule/` directory.

Run the [ansible-galaxy](https://github.com/ansible/galaxy-lint-rules) and [my](https://github.com/robertdebock/ansible-lint-rules) lint rules if you want your change to be merges:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/ansible/ansible-lint.git /tmp/ansible-lint
ansible-lint -r /tmp/ansible-lint/lib/ansiblelint/rules .

git clone https://github.com/robertdebock/ansible-lint /tmp/my-ansible-lint
ansible-lint -r /tmp/my-ansible-lint/rules .
```

License
-------

Apache-2.0


Author Information
------------------

[Robert de Bock](https://robertdebock.nl/) <robert@meinit.nl>
